---
authors: poscreator
slug: middleware/1.3.36
tags: [Middleware, Germany]
---

# Middleware 1.3.36 (Germany)
In this version of the Middleware, we've added Database indices for frequently accessed fields and localization to our Android App.

<!--truncate-->

:::caution

Version 1.3 of the Middleware is meant for the German market only, customers in Austria and France should continue to use version 1.2. We will unify these experiences in an upcoming version.

:::

## Stability improvement: Added necessary indices to MW databases to improve query performance
With the operational experience we have collected since the go-live in Germany, we have added new indices to the Middleware database so that frequent queries (e.g. while doing /sign or /journal calls) are optimized. The Amount of RW operations on the HDD should be significantly reduced, as well as the execution time.


## Feature: Added localization to Android App
The android App will now detect the used language and display all warning and error messages in the chosen language.


## Affected packages
Packages not listed here were not updated, as we decided to not increase the version of unchanged packages. All packages with versions greater or equal to 1.3.1 are compatible with each other (it is e.g. possible to use _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.Swissbit.1.3.1_ with the new queue packages).

- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.EF v1.3.36_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.SQLite v1.3.36_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.MySQL v1.3.36_


## Next steps in the Middleware
We will focus on developing of the next version of the fiskaltrust.Launcher in the next sprints.
This version will be developed open-source, and our first public prototype can be found in the public repository https://github.com/fiskaltrust/middleware-launcher.

As always, we're happy to hear feedback and suggestions via [feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud](mailto:feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud) or directly via issues in our GitHub repositories.
