---
authors: poscreator
slug: middleware/1.3.39
tags: [Middleware, Germany]
---

# Middleware 1.3.39 (Germany)
In this version of the Middleware, we made it possible to run the German middleware on an ARM device, moreover,  we implemented an automatic retry when updating the FCC, we've also fixed a bug concerning Fail-transactions not removing the failed start transactions on the FailedStartTransaction table in the database.

<!--truncate-->

:::caution

Version 1.3 of the Middleware is meant for the German market only, customers in Austria and France should continue to use version 1.2. We will unify these experiences in an upcoming version.

:::

## Feature: ARM support for the German middleware
We now offer support for customers using ARM devices and wish to implement our German middleware. Most packages should work on ARM processors, except for these ones, because they do not offer ARM support in their software development kits:
- Epson SCU
- Diebold Nixdorf SCU
- Swissbit Hardware on ARM64

## Feature: Automatic FCC update retry implemented
We have implemented an automatic retry when updating the FCC.


## Bug Fix: Explicit fail-transaction-receipt doesn't remove failed start transactions
We´ve solved a bug where in some cases the Fail-transaction receipt did not remove the failed start transactions from the FailedStartTransaction table in the database, when beeing in failed mode. Now when an explicit failed is sent, it closes all failed start transactions.

## Affected packages
Packages not listed here were not updated, as we decided to not increase the version of unchanged packages. All packages with versions greater or equal to 1.3.1 are compatible with each other (it is e.g. possible to use _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.Swissbit.1.3.1_ with the new queue packages).

- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.DeutscheFiskal v1.3.39_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.SwissbitCloud v1.3.39_
- _fiskaltrust.Launcher v1.3.39__
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Helper.Helipad v1.3.39__
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Interface.Client.Grpc v1.3.39__
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Interface.Client.Http v1.3.39__
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Interface.Client.Soap v1.3.39__

## Next steps in the Middleware
We will focus on developing of the next version of the fiskaltrust.Launcher in the next sprints.
This version will be developed open-source, and our first public prototype can be found in the public repository https://github.com/fiskaltrust/middleware-launcher.

As always, we're happy to hear feedback and suggestions via [feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud](mailto:feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud) or directly via issues in our GitHub repositories.
