---
authors: poscreator
slug: middleware/1.3.35
tags: [Middleware, Germany]
---

# Middleware 1.3.35 (Germany)
In this version of the Middleware, we've increased the resilience of our implementation of the Fiskal Cloud Connector in the _Swissbit Cloud_ and _Deutsche Fiskal_ SCUs and improved the compatibility and stability of our TAR and DSFinV-K exports.

<!--truncate-->

:::caution

Version 1.3 of the Middleware is meant for the German market only, customers in Austria and France should continue to use version 1.2. We will unify these experiences in an upcoming version.

:::

## Stability improvement: Removed unused FCC properties Swissbit Cloud & Deutsche Fiskal SCUs
In previous versions, we've used auto-generated models for communicating with the Fiskal Cloud Connector, that included properties that we did not use in our implementation of the _SwissbitCloud_ and _DeutscheFiskal_ TSEs. In some rare cases, properties marked as "mandatory" were not returned by the FCC, which led to exceptions. We've removed all non-needed properties in our FCC model classes to increase the stability.

## Feature:  DSFinV-K export fallback in case of empty "ItemCaseName"
If the field ZAHLART is empty because of an empty ItemCaseName in ftReceiptCaseData, we automated that it would be filled with the payitem descrption. This will enable auditors to distinguish between the different payment types.

## Bug fix: TAR export failed
We've resolved a rare issue where TAR headers could not be parsed, resulting in failing TAR exports for a small amount of installations. 

## Bug fix: Check content equality failed for EF queue
We've fixed an issue where a missing dependency prevented the deletion of temporary files when running an export on a EF Queue. After updating to this version, previously (wrongly) stored files will be deleted to create a clean state.

## Documentation: Signaturecloud single pod manual
We've created a [step-by-step guide](https://github.com/fiskaltrust/product-de-bring-your-own-datacenter/blob/master/howto-single-instance.md) for running the Launcher image in a single Docker container instance (instead of spinning up a full-blown K8s instance). We recommend to use this possibility only for very small installations where reliability and fail-safety is not a critical issue.

## Affected packages
Packages not listed here were not updated, as we decided to not increase the version of unchanged packages. All packages with versions greater or equal to 1.3.1 are compatible with each other (it is e.g. possible to use _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.Swissbit.1.3.1_ with the new queue packages).

- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.EF v1.3.35_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.SQLite v1.3.35_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.MySQL v1.3.35_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.DeutscheFiskal v1.3.35_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.SwissbitCloud v1.3.35_


## Next steps in the Middleware
We will focus on developing of the next version of the fiskaltrust.Launcher in the next sprints.
This version will be developed open-source, and our first public prototype can be found in the public repository https://github.com/fiskaltrust/middleware-launcher.

As always, we're happy to hear feedback and suggestions via [feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud](mailto:feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud) or directly via issues in our GitHub repositories.
