---
authors: poscreator
slug: middleware/1.3.41
tags: [Middleware, Germany]
---

# Middleware 1.3.41 (Germany)
In this version of the Middleware, we have increased the default fiskaly timeout to enable longer TAR export to be performed, we have also reworked the Android launcher and the Swissbit SCU. And  we have increased the default timeout of the helipad helper as well as added a new configuration parameter regarding the readcount for the journalDE entries.
Additionally, we have added ARMEL support to our SQLite packages. And finally we have created a script which helps generating indexes for MySQL databases used in a bring your own data center environment.

<!--truncate-->

:::caution

Version 1.3 of the Middleware is meant for the German market only, customers in Austria and France should continue to use version 1.2. We will unify these experiences in an upcoming version.

:::

## Feature: Fiskalyclient timeout increased
We have increased the default Fiskalyclient timeout because in some cases the default timeout was too short to perform TAR export leading up to timout errors.

### Affected packages:

- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.Fiskaly v1.3.41_

## Feature: Android launcher rework
We have removed the GRPC core package from the Android launcher to avoid unnecessary blockage when releasing future versions of the andoird launcher.

### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.androidlauncher.grpc v1.3.41_

## Feature: Swissbit SCU restructuration including ARM support

We have reworked the Swissbit SCU to include ARM support, we also have made the Swissbit SCU parameters case-insensitive, this should boost stability and prevent any conflict from dependancies when releasing future versions of the Swissbit SCU.

### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.Swissbit v1.3.41_

## Feature: Helipad default timeout increased and new configuration parameter
We have increased the default timeout of the helipad, we have also introduced a parameter to configure the readcount for the journalDE entries via a key pair value.

### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Helper.Helipad v1.3.41_

## Feature: ARMEL support in SQLite 
We have added ARMEL support to our SQLite package, to continue expanding our ARM support offer.

### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.SQLite v1.3.41_

## Feature: Creation of a script to generate indexes for MySQL databases
We have created a script which generate indexes for MySQL databases used in a bring your own data center environment, more details can be found [here](https://github.com/fiskaltrust/product-de-bring-your-own-datacenter/issues/69).

### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.MySQL v1.3.41_

## Next steps in the Middleware
We will focus on developing of the next version of the fiskaltrust.Launcher in the next sprints.
This version will be developed open-source, and our first public prototype can be found in the public repository https://github.com/fiskaltrust/middleware-launcher.

As always, we're happy to hear feedback and suggestions via [feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud](mailto:feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud) or directly via issues in our GitHub repositories.