---
authors: poscreator
slug: middleware/1.3.48
tags: [Middleware, Germany, Italy]
---

# Middleware 1.3.48 (Germany)
In this version of the Middleware we introduced the force SCU switch flag, chunked export support in the Swissbit TSE, Fixed the reported transaction count in the Fiskaly TSE and improved the SwissbitCloud and DeutscheFiskal startup timeout. 

<!--truncate-->

:::caution

Version 1.3 of the Middleware is meant for the German and Italian markets only, customers in Austria and France should continue to use version 1.2. We will unify these experiences in an upcoming version.

:::

## Feature: Force SCU Switch
We've added a new force SCU Switch flag `0x0000000040000000` to the Init-Scu-Switch Receipt ([More Information](https://portal.fiskaltrust.de/KBArticle#/KA-01134/SCU-Switch%20%3Cspan%20class=%22highlight%22%3Eforce%3C/span%3E%20switch%20flag)). This flag can be used in some cases where the Init-Scu-Switch Receipt fails otherwise.

### Affected packages:

- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.EF v1.3.48_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.MySQL v1.3.48_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.SQLite v1.3.48_

## Feature: Swissbit TSE Chunked export support
The Swissbit TSE now supports chunked exports. This can be used in cases where an out of memory exception is thrown during the exports ([More Information](https://portal.fiskaltrust.de/KBArticle#/KA-01136/Swissbit%20TSE%20%3Cspan%20class=%22highlight%22%3Echunked%3C/span%3E%20tar%20export)). To enable this you can set the `ChunkExportTransactionCount` parameter in the Swissbit SCU configuration (for example to `10000`).

### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.Swissbit  v1.3.48_

## Bug Fix: Fiskaly number of transactions maxes at 100 [fiskaltrust/middleware#170](https://github.com/fiskaltrust/middleware/issues/170)
We've fixed a bug where the number of open transactions reported by the Fiskaly SCU would max out at 100.

### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.FiskalyCertified  v1.3.48_

## Bug Fix: Long startup timeout on error
We've improved the FCC error detection on startup of the DeutscheFiskal and SwissbitCloud TSEs. Previously this could lead to a long startup delay if the FCC crashed.

### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.DeutscheFiskal  v1.3.48_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.SwissbitCloud v1.3.48_

> As always, we're happy to hear feedback and suggestions via [feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud](mailto:feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud) or directly via issues in our GitHub repositories.
