---
authors: poscreator
slug: middleware/1.3.46
tags: [Middleware, Germany]
---

# Middleware 1.3.46 (Germany)
In this version of the Middleware we solved an issue where DSFinV-K exports failed, we have updated the Fiskal Cloud Connector (FCC) to version 4.0.5 and we updated the CertificationId to the newest one. We also updated the install-service.sh script for the mono launcher.

<!--truncate-->

:::caution

Version 1.3 of the Middleware is meant for the German and Italian markets only, customers in Austria and France should continue to use version 1.2. We will unify these experiences in an upcoming version.

:::

## Updated third-party dependencies: Deutsche Fiskal and SwissbitCloud
We've updated the FCC to version 4.0.5
### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.DeutscheFiskal  v1.3.46_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.SwissbitCloud v1.3.46_

## Bug Fix: Certificate display for Deutsche Fiskal and SwissbitCloud
We have updated the CertificationId to the newest one for Deutsche Fiskal and SwissbitCloud.
### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.DeutscheFiskal  v1.3.46_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.SwissbitCloud v1.3.46_

## Bug Fix: DSFINV-K export failed
We have fixed a bug in the DSFinV-K export which led to the export to crash for a very specific case when data was missing. We have also improved export performance for EF Queues and added a parameter to disable references in the export, which can be helpful for getting exports with wrongly configured implementations. 
### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.EF v1.3.46_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.MySQL v1.3.46_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.SQLite v1.3.46_

## Bug Fix: HelipadHelper upload fails while pushing configuration [fiskaltrust/product-de-bring-your-own-datacenter#76](https://github.com/fiskaltrust/product-de-bring-your-own-datacenter/issues/76)
We have fixed a bug in the HelipadHelper where some values of the turnovercounter could lead to the helipad upload failing with the message `Error while pushing configuration data for queue <queueid>`.
### Affected packages:
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Helper.Helipad v1.3.46_
- _[byodc docker image](https://github.com/fiskaltrust/product-de-bring-your-own-datacenter/pkgs/container/byodc) v1.3.46 (bullseye, jammy)_

## Updated mono launcher
We've updated the install-service.sh script for the mono launcher.

# Middleware 1.3.46 (Italy)
In this version of the Middleware we created the first version of the italian queue and SCU. We also implemented the first operations such as :
- the start-receipt
- pos-receipt
- refund
- void
- out of operation
- zero receipt
- daily closing receipt
- the failures scenarios

There are available in our [Postman collection] (https://middleware-samples.docs.fiskaltrust.cloud/#ed209140-fcbb-47ae-bcc0-30649ad1e155)

## Next steps in the Middleware
We will focus on continuing developing the italian version of the fiskaltrust.Launcher in the next sprints.
This version will be developed open-source, and our first public prototype can be found in the public repository [https://github.com/fiskaltrust/middleware-launcher](https://github.com/fiskaltrust/middleware).

As always, we're happy to hear feedback and suggestions via [feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud](mailto:feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud) or directly via issues in our GitHub repositories.
