---
authors: poscreator
slug: middleware/1.3.55-rc1
tags: [Middleware, Germany]
---

# Middleware 1.3.55-rc1 (Germany)
In this version of the Middleware we solved an issue in ByoDC when some receipts signing fails with: "configuration not readable" message
<!--truncate-->

:::caution

Version 1.3 of the Middleware is meant for the German market only, customers in Austria and France should continue to use version 1.2. We will unify these experiences in an upcoming version.

:::

## Bugfix: Configuration download  made more robust and improved logging [fiskaltrust/product-de-bring-your-own-datacenter#79](https://github.com/fiskaltrust/product-de-bring-your-own-datacenter/issues/79)

:::info

This bugfix is only released as an *rc* version at the moment.

:::

In this version of the BYODC, we have fortified the configuration download process to enhance its robustness. Our focus was on improving the reliability and resilience of this functionality. Additionally, we've implemented comprehensive enhancements to the logging mechanisms surrounding the configuration download. This refinement provides a more detailed and insightful view into the process, making it easier to troubleshoot and analyze any potential issues. These improvements collectively contribute to a more stable and efficient system.


:::

## Next steps in the Middleware
We will focus on developing of an italian version of the fiskaltrust.Launcher in the next sprints.
This version will be developed open-source, and our first public prototype can be found in the public repository https://github.com/fiskaltrust/middleware-launcher.

As always, we're happy to hear feedback and suggestions via [feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud](mailto:feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud) or directly via issues in our GitHub repositories.




