---
slug: /release-notes/middleware/1.3.34
title: Version 1.3.34
---

# fiskaltrust.Middleware 1.3.34 (Germany)
_June 02, 2022_

In this version of the Middleware, we've updated the _Fiskal Cloud Connector_ to 4.0.2 and made the Middleware compatible with the _DSFINV-K 2.3_. Additionally, we fixed an issue that occurred when switching from one _Swissbit Cloud_ or _Deutsche Fiskal_ TSE to another, and removed unnecessary additional data that was sent to the CryptoVision TSE.

:::caution

Version 1.3 of the Middleware is meant for the German market only, customers in Austria and France should continue to use version 1.2. We will unify these experiences in an upcoming version.

:::

## Updated third party dependencies: Swissbit Cloud & Deutsche Fiskal
We've updated our dependency to the _Fiskal Cloud Connector_ (used by the _Deutsche Fiskal_ and the _Swissbit Cloud_ SCUs) to version 4.0.2. The Middleware's behavior was not changed by this update. Users can update to the latest FCC version by updating to version 1.3.34 of the respective SCU - the FCC update will be automatically installed.

## Feature: Update DSFINV-K export to version 2.3
We've implemented some minor changes to make our DSFinV-K export compatible with the recently released version 2.3 of the standard. Like the previous versions of the export, we've again obtained a certification from Audicon. The export is fully backwards-compatible to existing data, and no further changes than updating to the latest version of the Queue are required to use it.

## Bug fix: Don't send 'additionalData' to CryptoVision TSEs
We noticed that QR codes generated by our Middleware could not be correctly validated with _AmadeusVerify_ when using a _CryptoVision_ TSE. Our investigations showed that this was caused by the fact that we were sending additional data when signing receipts with the TSE, which is not supported by the verification software, and should be generally avoided. We've removed this parameter to make the QR codes verify correctly. 

In addition, we've also prepared an appendix that PosCreators and PosDealers can add to their process documentation (_Verfahrensdokumentation_) to deal with cases in which auditors raise questions about this behavior.

## Bug fix: Switch from one SwissbitCloud SCU to another caused errors in some cases
We implemented a functionality that enables to deregister an ERS (i.e. a client) from _Swissbit Cloud_ and _Deutsche Fiskal_ TSEs, to be able to re-register it when performing a SCU switch from one of these TSEs to another. This error only occurred in scenarios where both TSEs (the source and the target) where created in the same account, as the Fiskal Cloud ensures that ERS names are unique.

## Affected packages
Packages not listed here were not updated, as we decided to not increase the version of unchanged packages. All packages with versions greater or equal to 1.3.1 are compatible with each other (it is e.g. possible to use _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.Swissbit.1.3.1_ with the new queue packages).

- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.EF v1.3.34_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.SQLite v1.3.34_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.Queue.MySQL v1.3.34_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.DeutscheFiskal v1.3.34_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.SwissbitCloud v1.3.34_
- _fiskaltrust.Middleware.SCU.DE.Cryptovision v1.3.34_

## Next steps in the Middleware
We will focus on developing of the next version of the fiskaltrust.Launcher in the next sprints.
This version will be developed open-source, and our first public prototype can be found in the public repository https://github.com/fiskaltrust/middleware-launcher.

As always, we're happy to hear feedback and suggestions via [feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud](mailto:feedback+middleware@fiskaltrust.cloud) or directly via issues in our GitHub repositories.
